The Silver Armour, Fortify+1, 		This shining armour is so dazzling that it makes its wearer difficult to hit in combat.
The Black Sword, The Black Sword is a frightful thing to look upon.
The Blue Orb, The Blue Orb shows so many futures that it is constantly in a chaotic swirl.
The Cyan Gem, The Cyan Gem fills its bearer with an unholy strength.
The Green Tome, The Green Tome contains many secrets.
The Orange Banner, Those who march beneath the Orange Banner travel great distances and in good spirits.
The Red Bow, It is said that only a true leader can string the Red Bow.
The White Staff, This ancient staff crackles with power, instilling allies with strength and striking down enemies.
The Yellow Cross, This cross strengthens the resolve of all who march with it.
The Axe of Slaying, Strength+2, 	It is said that this axe can cleave straight through an opponent's armour.
The Banner of Rage, Morale+1, 		This magical banner improves the morale of all those who fight beneath it
The Blue Key, The Blue Key opens new oportunities for those who hold it bringing them treasures beyond their dreams.
The Boots of Flying, These boots allow the wearer to fly through the air.
The Boots of Speed, These magical boots allow the wearer to move with little effort. A hard day's pace will feel like a gentle stroll.
The Boots Of Kor, Any orc who wears the Boots Of Kor shall lead his armies over great distances.
Eldor's Bow, This bow can shoot a number of arrows in rapid succession.
The Hunter's Bow, This strong wooden bow allows one good shot at an approaching enemy
The Bow of Speed, Not even an elf can fire as many arrows as this bow.
The Golden Chest, Every time you close this chest it fills with gold again!
The Cloak of Air, This cloak allows the wearer to fly with the speed of the wind.
The Shadow Cloak, This dark cloak makes the wearer as insubstantial as a  shadow.
The Fallen Crown, This very plain looking crown is actually magically endowed.
The Cross of Power, This religious item strengthens its bearer against all evils
Bane's Crown, The wearer of this crown can strike down his foes with a glance.
The Elven Crown, This shining crown inspires all who follow its wearer.
The Liche's Crown, This crown changes the wearer's face to skull, terrifying his enemy.
The Selentine Crown, This was the royal crown of Selentia, but was lost 200 years ago.
The Daggeril Blade, This gem-encrusted blade was made for the Selentine Emperor by the smiths of Daggeril.
The Dragonblade, This sword, owned by Losryn Dragonslayer, has slain 12 dragons.
The Figurine of Kor, This ancient Orcish figurine makes the bearer as strong as an Orc Chieftain.
The Gloves of Skill, These gauntlets can be put to good use building castle walls.
The Gauntlets of Flight, The person using this item to fly will seem daunting to all enemies.
The Gem of Boundry, The radiance of this gem strengthens any wall it falls upon.
The Celethang Gem, This famous glowing emerald inspires the bearer's troops while terrifying his enemy.
The Gem of Kali, This beautiful gem is the host to some very evil powers
The Lytestone, This magical diamond not only raises the morale of troops, but shows them a safe path through arduous terrain.
The Godsword, Many say this was the most powerful sword ever made.  It gives the bearer the strength and charisma of a God.
The Crown of Grak, The wearer of this crown will increase his men's morale.
The Eye of Grak, This orb allows the owner to see further than usual.
The Fist of Grak, This gem allows the owner to strike first in any battle.
The Mace of Grak, This item is said to only fit the hand of an Orc.
The Heart of Grak, This gem is able to help its owner to overcome the walls of a city.
The Purse of Grak, This sack carries more gold than you would expect.
The Ring of Grak, This ring enhances the wearer's ability to move fast and sure.
The Shield of Grak, This shield will add not only to a city's defence, but will cause any viewing it to fall back in fear.
The Wings of Grak, These wings allow their owner to fly.
The Helm of Command, This ancient helmet increases the wearer's ability to lead troops into combat.
The Helm of Speed, This winged helmet makes the wearer and their armies to move with the speed of the wind.
The Horn Of Kor, The Prized Horn Of Kor is a magical horn with the power to make even the most infertile man's kindgom flourish.
The Horn Of Storm, 
The Horn of Stone, When blown, the skin of  all friendly armies hardens like stone.
The Horn of Calling, The person blowing this horn will summon spirits to lift his troops' morale
The Skeleton Key, This key will help not only to defend a city but also to open an enemy's gates.
The Entrance Key, This magical key will allow the wielder to weaken any city's defence.
The Magic Mirror, The Magic Mirror lets its bearer see their surroundings more clearly.
The Medal of Valor, This medal makes any group of warriors fight as if they were veterans
The Mirror of Adara, This mirror shows its bearer how to obtain money.
The Mirror of Pa, Anyone looking into this mirror sees themselves as larger, stronger, more powerful. This is false but it gives much confidence.
The Orb of Balance, This orb radiates an inspiring blue light while being used.
The Potion of Flight, One sip of this allows the drinker to soar like an eagle.
The Potion of Might, This potion increases the drinker's strength
The Red Eye Gem, This gem is a tribal symbol to the Red Eye Orcs.
The Elven Ring, The magical sapphire on this ring imbues its wearer with the knowledge of 1,000 victories.
The Ring of Air, This ring not only renders its wearer invisible, but also allows them to fly.
The Ring of Life, This increases the health of its wearer, adding +1 to their hits.
The Ring of Power, The Ring of Power lifts the morale of an army, inspiring them to great deeds.
The Spider Ring, One touch of this ring can render a victim completely helpless
The Leveling Ring, Defences crumble as this ring is held aloft.
The Scroll of Decay, The sight of this scroll causes fearful images of old age to appear in the viewer's mind.
The Silver Skull, Silver pieces pour from the open mouth of this skull.
The Talking Skull, This skull is full of good ideas...
The Stealth Dagger, The person using this dagger will find it faster to strike than any other dagger.
The Staff Of Selentia, The Staff Of Selentia gives any army great defense.
Staff Of The Wise Orc, The once wise Orc who owned this staff is said to have passed on his wisdom enabling any army who holds it the same wisdom.
The Staff of Ruin, Chaos+2,		Wherever it strikes this staff causes nothing but chaos
The Longing Statue, The figurine you hold wears a cloak decorated with eyes of many shapes and sizes.
Fire Of Storm, The Fire of the Storm shines light over a wide area.
The Darksword, The dark blade of this magical sword is constantly dripping with venom.
The Sword of Light, This shining sword adds to the bearer's strength in battle.
Mealin's Sword, This sword was forged by an ancient Dwarf smith named Mealin.
The Sword of Duty, The hilt of this sword is decorated with pictures of armies being led to great conquests.
The Sword of Sirian, This ancient sword was the first gift from the Dwarfs to the Sirian Knights
Thalassian Crown, This is the Crown worn by all kings of Thalassia since ancient times.
Sword of Thalas, The Sword of Thalas crackles with magical energy
The Mace Of Kor, The Mace Of Kor's power will enable the bearer to crush even the most ferocious of his enemies.
The Tome of Alfland, This Tome can teach a hero to be a better leader.
The Grey Tome, This tome tells a reader how to gain strength
The Orchish Banner, Orcs who stand under the Orchish Banner have the protection of a thousand orcs.
The Hero's Torch, Leadership+1,		This torch inspires any army that marches behind it.
The Shining Wand, Leadership+2,		A hero's troops find it easier to move ahead when led by this shining artifact.
The Wizards Flame, The Wizards Flame belongs to Yhan the wizard of Wizards Isle